.TH DWB 1 "Januar 2012" dwb "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
dwb \- dynamic web browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dwb
[ options ] [ <urls> ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
dwb is a small webbrowser based on webkit and GTK which aims to be mostly
keyboard-driven. 

.SH COMMAND LINE ARGUMENTS
.TP
.BR \-e ,\  --embed \ <wid>
Embed dwb into <wid>.
.TP
.BR \-f ,\  --force \ <wid>
Force restoring a previously saved session, even if it seems that another
process has opened a session with the same name. 
.TP
.BR \-l ,\  --list-sessions
List previously saved sessions. A 
.I *
indicates that another instance has currently opened the session.
.TP
.BR \-n ,\  --new-instance 
New instance, overrides setting 
.IR single-instance .
.TP
.BR \-p ,\  --profile \ <name>
Load configuration for profile  
.I <name>
.TP
.BR \-r ,\  --restore \ <name>
Restore session with name 
.I <sessionname> 
or the default session, if sessionname is omitted.
.TP
.BR \-R ,\  --override-restore 
Open a new session, even if 
.I save-session 
is enabled.
.TP
.BR \-x ,\  --execute \ <commands>
Execute a list list of dwb commands seperated by 
.IR ;; , 
see 
.B CUSTOM COMMANDS 
and
.B COMMAND OVERVIEW
for details.
If 
.I single instance 
is enabled all commands will be executed in the primary instance. 
.TP
.B \-v
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.B <urls>
URLs loaded on startup.

.SH MODES
dwb has different modes:
.TP
.B Normal mode
The default mode. Pressing "Escape" will get you always back to
normal mode.
.TP
.B Insert mode 
Used for editing text-elements in a webpage. 
.TP
.B Hint mode 
Follow links via hints. 
.TP
.B Command mode 
Execute dwb commands from the builtin commandline.


.SH SHORTCUTS
Note: all shortcuts are case sensitive, e.g. C-H means Control-Shift-h. 
.SS "Normal mode shortcuts:"
.TP
.BR [n]j
Scroll [n times] down (command: 
.BR scroll_down , 
aliases: 
.BR down ).
.TP
.BR [n]k
Scroll [n times] up (command: 
.BR scroll_up ,
aliases:
.BR up ).
.TP
.BR [n]h
Scroll [n times] left (command: 
.BR scroll_left ,
aliases:
.BR left ).
.TP
.BR [n]l
Scroll [n times] right (command 
.BR scroll_right ,
aliases:
.BR right ).
.TP
.BR [n]gg
Scroll to the top or to n% of the page (command 
.BR scroll_top ,
aliases:
.BR top ).
.TP
.BR [n]G
Scroll to the bottom or to n% of the page (command 
.BR scroll_bottom ,
aliases:
.BR bottom ).
.TP
.BR  [n]C-f
Scroll [n] pages down (command
.BR scroll_page_down ,
aliases:
.BR pagedown ).
.TP
.BR [n]C-b
Scroll [n] pages up (comman
.BR scroll_page_up  ,
aliases:
.BR pageup ).
.TP
.BR  [n]C-d
Scroll [n] half pages down (command
.BR scroll_halfpage_down ,
aliases:
.BR halfdown ).
.TP
.BR [n]C-u
Scroll [n] half pages up (command
.BR scroll_halfpage_up  ,
aliases:
.BR halfup ).
.TP
.B : 
Enter Command mode.
.TP
.BR o 
Open new url in the focused tab (command
.BR open ,
aliases:
.BR o ).
.TP
.BR go 
Open url in the focused tab, set the current url in the navigation bar (comand 
.BR open_url ).
.TP
.BR O 
Open url in a new tab (command 
.BR tabopen ,
aliases:
.BR topen , 
.BR t ).
.TP
.BR gO 
Open url in a new tab, set the current url in the navigation bar (command 
.IR tabopen_url ).
.TP
.BR wo 
Open url in a new instance (command 
.BR winopen ,
aliases:
.BR wopen ,
.BR w ).
.TP
.BR wO 
Open url in a new window, set the current url in the navigation bar (command
.BR winopen_url ).
.TP
.BR i 
Enter insert mode (command 
.BR insert_mode ,
aliases:
.BR i , 
.BR insert ).
.TP
.BR ga 
Add a new blank tab (command
.BR tab_new ).
.TP
.BR d
Close current tab (command
.BR close_tab ,
aliases:
.BR close ).
.TP
.BR co
Close all tabs except for the current one (command
.BR only ).
.TP
.BR C-q
Quit (command
.BR quit ,
aliases:
.BR q ).
.TP
.BR u
Undo closing last tab (command
.BR undo ,
aliases:
.BR u ).
.TP
.BR C-h
Open the default startpage (command
.BR start_page ,
aliases:
.BR home ).
.TP
.BR H  
Go back (command 
.BR history_back ,
aliases:
.BR back ,
.BR ba ).
.TP
.BR L 
Go forward (command 
.BR history_forward ,
aliases:
.BR forward , 
.BR fo ).
.TP
.BR th  
Go back in a new tab (command 
.BR tab_hist_back,
aliases:
.BR tabback ,
.BR tba ).
.TP
.BR tl 
Go forward in a new tab (command 
.BR tab_hist_forward ,
aliases:
.BR tabforward ,
.BR tfo ).
.TP
.BR wh  
Go back in a new window (command 
.BR win_hist_back ,
aliases:
.BR winback ,
.BR wba ).
.TP
.BR wl 
Go forward in a new window (command 
.BR win_hist_forward ,
aliases:
.BR winforward ,
.BR wfo ).
.TP
.BR M
Add a bookmark (command
.BR bookmark ,
aliases:
.BR bmark , 
.BR bma ).
.TP 
.B gb
Show Bookmarks (command
.BR bookmarks ,
aliases:
.BR bmarks ,
.BR bmas ).
.TP 
.B gB
Show Bookmarks, open bookmark in a new tab (command
.BR tab_bookmarks ,
aliases:
.BR tabmarks ).
.TP 
.B wB
Show Bookmarks, open bookmark in a new window (command
.BR win_bookmarks ,
aliases:
.BR winmarks ).
.TP
.BR m
Add a quickmark (command 
.BR save_quickmark ,
aliases:
.BR quickmark , 
.BR qmark ).
.TP
.BR b
Open quickmark (command 
.BR quickmark ,
aliases:
.BR qmarks ).
.TP
.BR B
Open quickmark in a new tab (command
.BR tab_quickmark ,
aliases:
.BR tabqmarks ).
.TP
.BR wb[:graph:]
Open quickmark in a new window (command
.BR win_quickmark ,
aliases:
.BR winqmarks ).
.TP
.BR [n]r
Reload tab n or current tab if n is omitted (command
.BR reload ,
aliases:
.BR re ).
.TP
.BR [n]R
Reload tab n or current tab if n is omitted without using any cached data (command
.BR reload_bypass_cache ,
aliases:
.BR refull ).
.TP
.BR [n]C-s
Stop loading of tab n or of current tab is [n] is omitted (command
.BR stop_loading ,
aliases:
.BR stop ,
.BR st ).
.TP
.BR [n]+
Zoom in [n times] (command
.BR zoom_in ,
aliases:
.BR zi ).
.TP
.BR [n]-
Zoom out [n times] (command 
.BR zoom_out ,
aliases:
.BR zo ).
.TP
.BR [n]=
Zoom to n percent or to 100% if n is omitted(command 
.BR zoom,
aliases:
.BR z ).
.TP
.BR sf
Save all configuration files (command
.BR save ).
.TP
.BR ZZ
Save current session and exit (command 
.BR save_session ,
aliases:
.BR wq ).
.TP
.BR gZZ 
Save current session with name and exit (command 
.BR save_named_session ,
aliases:
.BR wqn ).
.TP
.BR [n]J
Cycle focus [n tab] forwards. (command 
.BR focus_next ,
aliases:
.BR tabnext ).
.TP
.BR [n]K
Cycle focus [n tab] backwards. (command 
.BR focus_prev ,
aliases:
.BR tabprev ).
.TP
.BR [n]T
Focus nth tab or first, if n is omitted. 
(command 
.BR focus_tab ,
aliases:
.BR tab ).
.TP
.BR [n]gm
Move current tab to position [n] or to first position if n is omitted.
(command 
.BR tab_move ,
aliases:
.BR tabm ).
.TP
.BR [n]gl
Move current tab [n] positions left.
(command 
.BR tab_move_left ,
aliases:
.BR tabl ).
.TP
.BR [n]gr
Move current tab [n] positions right.
(command 
.BR tab_move_right ,
aliases:
.BR tabr ).
.TP
.BR gt
Show all open tabs. (command 
.BR buffers ,
aliases:
.BR bu ).
.TP
.BR [n]C-P
Protect tab [n]. Closing this tab must be confirmed (command 
.BR protect ,
aliases:
.BR prot ).
.TP
.BR [n]xd
Lock tab [n]. Locking a tab will lock this tab to the current domain, it's not
possible to navigate to another domain until unlocked. 
.BR lock_domain ,
aliases:
.BR dlock ).
.TP
.BR [n]xu
Lock tab [n]. Locking a tab will lock this tab to the current uri, it's not
possible to navigate to another uri until unlocked. 
.BR lock_uri ,
aliases:
.BR ulock ).
.TP
.BR f 
Show hints (command 
.BR hints ,
aliases:
.BR hints , 
.BR hi ).
.TP
.BR F
Show hints, open link in a new tab. (command
.BR hints_tab ,
aliases:
.BR tabhints , 
.BR thi ).
.TP
.BR wf
Show hints, open link in a new tab. (command
.BR hints_win ,
aliases:
.BR winhints ,
.BR whi ).
.TP
.BR ;i 
Follow image (command 
.BR hints_images ,
aliases:
.BR ihints ,
ihi ).
.TP
.BR ;I 
Follow image in a new tab (command 
.BR hints_images_tab ,
aliases:
.BR itabhints ,
.BR ithi ).
.TP
.BR ;e 
Focus editable elements via hints (command 
.BR hints_editable ,
aliases:
.BR ehints ,
.BR ehi ).
.TP
.BR ;o 
Set hint\'s url in commandline (command 
.BR hints_url ,
aliases:
.BR uhints ,
.BR uhi ).
.TP
.BR ;O 
Set hint\'s url in commandline, open in a new tab (command 
.BR hints_url_tab ,
aliases:
.BR utabhints ,
.BR uthi ).
.TP
.BR ;d 
Download via hints (command 
.BR hints_download ,
aliases:
.BR dhints ).
.TP
.BR ;y 
Save link location to clipboard (command 
.BR hints_clipboard ,
aliases:
.BR chints ,
.BR chi ).
.TP
.BR ;Y
Save link location to primary selection (command 
.BR hints_primary ,
aliases:
.BR phints ,
.BR phi ).
.TP
.BR ;r
Rapid hint mode, each matching hint opens a new tab in background. (command 
.BR hints_rapid ,
aliases:
.BR rhints ,
.BR rhi ).
.TP
.BR ;R
Rapid hint mode, each matching hint opens a new window. (command 
.BR hints_rapid_win ,
aliases:
.BR wrhints ,
.BR wrhi ).
.TP
.BR gf 
Toggle "view source" (command 
.BR view_source ,
aliases:
.BR source ,
.BR so ).
.TP
.BR CC 
Allow persistent cookie for the current website. The domain will be saved in  
.IR cookies.allow .
Cookies that are allowed by the cookies.allow whitelist are stored in
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/dwb/$profilename/cookies.  (command
.BR allow_cookie ,
aliases:
.BR cookie ).
.TP
.BR CS 
Allow session cookie for the current website. The domain will be saved in 
.IR cookies_session.allow .
This is only useful if 'cookies-store-policy' is set to 'never', see
cookies-store-policy for details. (command
.BR allow_session_cookie ,
aliases:
.BR scookie ).
.TP
.BR CT 
Allow session cookies for the current website temporarily. Only first party
cookies are allowed. The domain is not saved to a whitelist and the cookies will
not be saved persitently. (command
.BR allow_session_cookie_tmp ,
aliases:
.BR tcookie ).
.TP
.BR [n]yy
Yank the url of tab n or of current tab is n omitted to clipboard
(command 
.BR yank ).
.TP
.BR yY
Yank the url of tab n or of current tab is n omitted to primary
selection (command 
.BR yank_primary ,
aliases:
.BR pyank ).
.TP
.BR yt
Yank the title of tab n or of current tab is n omitted to clipboard
(command 
.BR yank_title ,
aliases:
.BR tyank ).
.TP
.BR yT
Yank the title of tab n or of current tab is n omitted to primary
selection (command 
.BR yank_title_primary ,
aliases:
.BR tpyank ).
.TP
.BR pp
Paste from clipboard (command 
.BR paste ).
.TP
.BR pP
Paste from primary selection (command
.BR paste_primary ,
aliases:
.BR ppaste ).
.TP
.BR Pp
Paste from clipboard and load in a new tab (command 
.BR tab_paste ,
aliases:
.BR tpaste ).
.TP
.BR PP
Paste from primary selection and load in a new tab (command
.BR tab_paste_primary ,
aliases:
.BR tppaste ).
.TP
.BR wp
Paste from clipboard and load in a new window (command 
.BR paste_nw ,
aliases:
.BR winpaste ).
.TP
.BR wP
Paste from primary selection and load in a new window (command
.BR paste_primary_nw ,
aliases:
.BR winppaste ).
.TP
.BR gs
Add a searchengine. Text fields can be focused via hints (command 
.BR save_search_field ,
aliases:
.BR search ).
.TP
.BR Sb 
Show bookmarks (command
.BR show_bookmarks ,
aliases:
.BR sbookmarks ).
.TP
.BR Sq 
Show quickmarks (command
.BR show_quickmarks ,
aliases:
.BR squickmarks ).
.TP
.BR Sh 
Show history (command
.BR show_history ,
aliases:
.BR shistory ).
.TP
.BR Sd 
Show download (command
.BR show_downloads ,
aliases:
.BR sdownloads ).
.TP
.BR Sk 
Show keys (command
.BR show_keys ,
aliases:
.BR skeys ).
.TP
.BR Ss 
Show settings (command
.BR show_settings ,
aliases:
.BR ssettings ).
.TP
.BR ss 
Set setting (command
.BR set_setting ,
aliases:
.BR settings ).
.TP
.BR sk
Set keyboard shortcut (command
.BR set_key ,
aliases:
.BR keys ).
.TP
.BR C-p 
Toggle proxy (command
.BR proxy ).
.TP
.BR tsh
Toggle scripts for current host permanently (command
.BR toggle_scripts_host ,
aliases:
.BR hscript ).
.TP
.BR tsu
Toggle scripts for current url permanently (command
.BR toggle_scripts_uri ,
aliases:
.BR uscript ).
.TP
.BR tth
Toggle scripts for current host temporarily (command
.BR toggle_scripts_host_tmp ,
aliases:
.BR thscript ).
.TP
.BR ttu
Toggle scripts for current url temporarily (command
.BR toggle_scripts_uri_tmp ,
aliases:
.BR tuscript ).
.TP
.BR ph
Toggle plugins for current host permanently (command
.BR toggle_plugins_host ,
aliases:
.BR hplugin ).
.TP
.BR pu
Toggle plugins for current url permanently (command
.BR toggle_plugins_uri ,
aliases:
.BR uplugin ).
.TP
.BR pth
Toggle plugins for current host temporarily (command
.BR toggle_plugins_host_tmp ,
aliases:
.BR thplugin ).
.TP
.BR ptu
Toggle plugins for current url temporarily (command
.BR toggle_plugins_uri_tmp ,
aliases:
.BR tuplugin ).
.TP
.BR V
Next navigation action will be opened in a new tab (command
.BR new_tab ).
.TP
.BR W
Next navigation action will be opened in a new window (command
.BR new_win ).
.TP
.BR eu
Show userscripts (command 
.TP 
.BR [n]wi
Show the webinspector of tab n or of current tab if n is omitted. Note that 'enable-developer-extras' has to be set. 
(commmand
.BR web_inspector , 
aliases: 
.BR inspect ,
.BR insp ).
.TP 
.BR C-e
Open external editor for current input/textarea (command
.BR open_editor ,
aliases:
.BR editor ).
.TP 
.BR g.
Toggle hidden files when browsing local filesystem. 
(command 
.BR open_editor ,
aliases: 
editor ).
.TP 
.BR F11
Toggle fullscreen 
(command 
.BR fullscreen , 
aliases: 
.BR fs ).
.TP 
.BR F12
Toggle presentation mode.
(command 
.BR presentation_mode , 
aliases: 
.BR present ).
.TP 
.BR xx
Toggle visibility of tabbar and statusbar.
(command 
.BR toggle_bars , 
aliases: 
.BR bars ).
.TP 
.BR xt
Toggle visibility of tabbar.
(command 
.BR toggle_tabbar , 
aliases: 
.BR tbar ).
.TP 
.BR xb
Toggle visibility of statusbar.
(command 
.BR toggle_statusbar , 
aliases: 
.BR sbar ).
.TP 
.BR xv
Toggle visibility of a tab.
(command 
.BR visible , 
aliases: 
.BR vis ).
.TP 
.BR [n]C-M-p
Print focused frame of tab n or of current tab if n is omitted.
(command 
.BR print , 
aliases: 
.BR ha ).
.TP
.BR unbound 
Execute a javascript snippet (command 
.BR execute_javascript ,
aliases: 
.BR exja ).
.TP
.BR unbound 
Set a setting from commandline (command 
.BR set ).
.TP
.BR toggle_setting 
Toggle a boolean setting from commandline (command 
.BR toggle_setting ,
aliases:
.BR toggle , 
.BR tog ).
.TP
.BR unbound 
Load a html string. This command is mainly intended for use in userscripts (command 
.BR load_html ).
.TP
.BR unbound 
Load a html string in a new tab. This command is mainly intended for use in userscripts (command 
.BR load_html_tab ).
.TP 
.B Tab (S-Tab) 
In normal mode Tab shows the next (previous) shortcut, that matches the
currently entered keysequence. 
When opening a url, the next (previous) item in command
history, bookmarks or history will be completed. In hint mode the next (previous)
hint will get focus. Tab also completes settings and shortcut-settings. 
When initiating a download, full paths (downloads and spawning programs) and
binaries (spawning programs) in PATH will be completed. 
In command mode tab will complete builtin commands and urls if the command
accepts an url.

.SS "Textentry shortcuts"
.TP
.BR C-h
Delete a single letter.
.TP
.BR C-w
Delete word back.
.TP
.BR C-e
Delete word forward.
.TP
.BR C-u
Delete to the beginning of the entry.
.TP
.BR C-i
Delete to the end of the entry.
.TP
.BR C-f
Move cursor one word forward.
.TP
.BR C-b
Move cursor one word back.
.TP
.BR C-j
Show next item in command history.
.TP
.BR C-k
Show previous item in command history.
.TP
.BR C-x
When initalizing a download, C-x toggles between choosing a file path and
choosing a spawning application.
.TP
.BR C-g
Alternative shortcut for activate. 
.TP
.BR C-c
Alternative shortcut for escape, the corresponding setting is 
.IR entry_escape . 
.TP
.BR C-p
Init local path completion.
.TP
.BR C-H
Init history completion. 
.TP
.BR C-B
Init bookmark completion. 
.TP
.BR C-I
Init input history completion. 
.TP
.BR C-S
Init searchengine completion.
.TP
.BR C-U
Init userscript completion.
.TP
.BR C-p
Complete local path.

.SS Shortcut Syntax
All printable shortcuts are case sensitive, i.e. aH means press a then press
shift, then press h. Shortcuts can be combined with a modifier, valid modifiers
are
.BR Control ,
.BR Mod1 ,
.BR Mod4 ,
.BR Button1 ,
.BR Button2 ,
.BR Button3 ,
.BR Button4 ,
.BR Button5 
and
.B Shift 
where Shift can only be used with non printable keys such as F1, space, Tab, ... .
Non printable keys must be surrounded by @, e.g. "Control @F1@", Shift @space@.
\e and @ itself must be escaped with \e.

.SH CUSTOM COMMANDS
Custom commands are a sequence of dwb commands that can be bound to a shortcut.
The syntax is
.IP
[shortcut]:[command];;[command];;...
.P 
where shortcut is the shortcut for the commandsequence, 
.B : 
may be escaped with
.BR \e: 
and command is of the form 
.IP
[numerical modifier][command or alias] [argument for the command]
.P 
for example
.IP 
Control W:tabopen http://example.com;; 150zoom
.P
opens http://example.com in a new tab and zooms to 150%.


.SH COMMAND OVERVIEW
.nf
Command                 |Alias           |Description
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
allow_cookie            |cookie          |Allow persistent cookies for site
allow_session_cookie    |scookie         |Allow session cookies for site
allow_session_cookie_tmp|tcookie         |Allow session cookies for site
                        |                |temporarily
bookmark                |bma, bmark      |Bookmark current page
bookmarks               |bmas, bmarks    |Show bookmarks 
buffers                 |bu              |Show all open tabs
close_tab               |close           |Close tab
execute_javascript      |exja            |Execute a javascript snippet
execute_userscript      |                |Execute userscript
find_backward           |bfind           |Find backward
find_forward            |ffind           |Find forward
find_next               |fnext           |Find next
find_previous           |fprev           |Find previous
focus_input             |                |Focus next input
focus_next              |tabnext         |Focus next tab
focus_prev              |tabprev         |Focus previous tab
focus_tab               |tab             |Focus nth tab
fullscreen              |fs              |Toggle fullscreen
hints                   |hi              |Follow hints
hints_clipboard         |chints, chi     |Save link location to clipboard
hints_download          |dhints, dhi     |Download via hints
hints_editable          |ehints, ehi     |Focus editable elements
hints_images            |ihints, ihi     |Follow images
hints_images_tab        |itabhinst, ithi |Follow images in a new tab
hints_links             |lhints, lhi     |Follow links
hints_primary           |phints, phi     |Save link location to primary
                        |                |selection
hints_rapid             |rhints, rhi     |Open new tabs in background
                        |                |rapidly
hints_rapid_win         |wrhints, wrhi   |Open new windows rapidly
hints_tab               |tabhints, thi   |Follow hints in a new tab
hints_url               |uhints, uhi     |Set hints url in commandline
hints_url_tab           |utabhints, uthi |Set hints url in commandline,
                        |                |open in a new tab
hints_win               |winhints, whi   |Follow hints in a new window
history_back            |ba, back        |Go back
history_forward         |fo, forward     |Go forward
insert_mode             |i, insert       |Insert mode
lock_domain             |dlock           |Lock tab to current domain
lock_uri                |ulock           |Lock tab to current uri
new_tab                 |                |Open next navigation action in
                        |                |new tab
new_win                 |                |Open next navigation action in
                        |                |new window
only                    |                |Close all tabs except for the 
                        |                |current one
open                    |o               |Open url
open_editor             |editor          |Open external editor for
                        |                |input/textarea.
open_url                |                |Open, edit current url
paste                   |                |Open from clipboard
paste_primary           |ppaste          |Open from primary selection
presentation_mode       |present         |Toggle presentation mode
print                   |ha              |Print page
protect                 |prot            |Protect/unprotect tab 
proxy                   |                |Toggle proxy
quickmark               |qmarks          |Open quickmark
quit                    |q               |Quit
reload                  |re              |Reload current page
reload_bypass_cache     |refull          |Reload without using cached data
reload_scripts          |                |Reload all javascript userscripts 
reload_userscripts      |                |Reload userscripts
save                    |                |Save all configuration files
save_named_session      |wqn             |Save current session with name
save_quickmark          |qmark, quickmark|Save a quickmark
save_search_field       |search          |Add a new searchengine 
save_session            |wq              |Save current session
scroll_bottom           |bottom          |Scroll to bottom of the page
scroll_down             |down            |Scroll down
scroll_halfpage_down    |halfdown        |Scroll one-half page down
scroll_halfpage_up      |halfup          |Scroll one-half page up
scroll_left             |left            |Scroll left
scroll_page_down        |pagedown        |Scroll one page down
scroll_page_up          |pageup          |Scroll one page up
scroll_right            |right           |Scroll right 
scroll_top              |top             |Scroll to the top of the page
scroll_up               |up              |Scroll up
set                     |                |Set a setting
set_key                 |keys            |Set keybinding
set_setting             |                |Set a setting interactive
show_keys               |skeys           |Show and modify keyboard
                        |                |configuration
show_settings           |ssettings       |Show and modify global properties
start_page              |home            |Open the default homepage
stop_loading            |st, stop        |Stop loading current page
tab_bookmarks           |tabmarks        |Show bookmarks, open in new tab
tab_hist_back           |tba, tabback    |Go back in a new tab
tab_hist_forward        |tfo, tabforward |Go forward in a new tab
tab_move                |tabm            |Move tab
tab_move_left           |tabl            |Move tab left
tab_move_right          |tabr            |Move tab right
tab_new                 |                |Open a new blank tab
tab_paste               |tpaste          |Open from clipboard in a new tab
tab_paste_primary       |tppaste         |Open from primary selection in a 
                        |                |new tab
tab_quickmark           |tabqmarks       |Open quickmark in a new tab
tabopen                 |t, topen        |Open in a new tab
tabopen_url             |                |Open in a new tab, edit current
                        |                |url
toggle_bars             |bars            |Toggle tabbar and statusbar
toggle_hidden_files     |hidden          |Toggle hidden files in directory
                        |                |listings
toggle_plugins_host     |hplugin         |Toggle plugin blocker for host
toggle_plugins_host_tmp |tuplugin        |Toggle plugin blocker for domain 
                        |                |for this session
toggle_plugins_uri      |uplugin         |Toggle plugin blocker for uri
toggle_plugins_uri_tmp  |tuplugin        |Toggle plugin blocker for uri for 
                        |                |this session
toggle_scripts_host     |hscript         |Toggle scripts for current domain
toggle_scripts_host_tmp |thscript        |Toggle scripts for current host 
                        |                |for this session
toggle_scripts_uri      |uscript         |Toggle scripts for current uri
toggle_scripts_uri_tmp  |tuscript        |Toggle scripts for current uri 
                        |                |for this session
toggle_setting          |tog, toggle     |Toggle a setting
toggle_statusbar        |sbar            |Toggle statusbar
toggle_tabbar           |tbar            |Toggle tabbar
undo                    |u               |Undo closing last tab
view_source             |so, source      |View page source
visible                 |vis             |Toggle visibility of a tab
web_inspector           |insp, inspect   |Open the webinspector
win_bookmarks           |winmarks        |Show bookmarks, open in new
                        |                |window
win_hist_back           |wba, winback    |Go back in a new window
win_hist_forward        |wfo, winforward |Go forward in a new window
win_paste               |wpaste          |Open from clipboard in a new
                        |                |window
win_paste_primary       |wppaste         |Open primary selection in a new
                        |                |window
win_quickmark           |winqmarks       |Open quickmark in a new window
winopen                 |w, wopen        |Open in a new window
winopen_url             |                |Open in a new window, edit
                        |                |current url
yank                    |                |Yank url to clipboard
yank_primary            |pyank           |Yank url to primary selection
yank_title              |tyank           |Yank title to clipboard
yank_title_primary      |tpyank          |Yank title to primary selection
zoom                    |z               |Zoom
zoom_in                 |zi              |Zoom in
zoom_out                |zo              |Zoom out
.fi

.SH CUSTOMIZATION
dwb can be  customized in a web interface (command 
.BR show_settings ) 
or via command line (command
.BR set_setting ). 
Modified settings
will be saved in 
.IR ~/.config/dwb/settings 
when closing dwb. 
Shorcuts can also be modified in a web interface (command 
.BR show_keys ) 
or via command line (command 
.BR set_key ). 
Shortcuts will be saved in 
.IR ~/.config/dwb/keys .

.SS Settings
If a string value is set to 
.IR NULL
the default value will be used. The settings in detail are: 
.TP
.BR adblocker
Block advertisements using a filterlist, see also 
.IR adblocker-filterlist .
Default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR adblocker-filterlist
A path to a adblock plus compatible filterlist for the adblocker.
Default value:
.IR NULL .
.TP
.BR auto-load-images  
Load images automatically. Possible values: true/false, 
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR auto-resize-window
Resize window through DOM-methods. Possible values: true/false, 
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR auto-shrink-images
Automatically shrink standalone images to fit. Possible values: true/false, 
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR cursive-font-family
Default cursive font family used to display text. Possible values: a font description or 
NULL, 
default value:
.IR NULL .
.TP
.BR custom-encoding
A custom encoding used for the webview. Possible values: encoding string or 
NULL,
default value:
.IR NULL .
.TP
.BR default-encoding
The default encoding used to display text. Possible values: encoding string or 
NULL,
default value:
.IR NULL .
.TP
.BR default-font-family
The default font family used to display text. Possible values: a font
description or
NULL, 
default value:
.IR sans-serif .
.TP
.BR default-font-size
The default font size used to display text. Possible values: a font size
(integer),
default value:
.IR 12 .
.TP
.BR default-monospace-font-size
The default font size used to display monospace text. Possible values: a font size
(integer),
default value:
.IR 10 .
.TP
.BR editable
Whether the content of a webpage should be editable. Possible values:
true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-caret-browsing
Whether to enable caret browsing. Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-default-context-menu
Whether right-clicks open a context menu. Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-dns-prefetching
Whether webkit prefetches domain names. 
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-developer-extras
Whether the web-inspector should be enabled. Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-dom-paste
Whether enable DOM-paste. Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-frame-flattening
Whether to enable the Frame Flattening. With this setting each subframe is expanded
to its contents, which will flatten all the frames to become one scrollable page.
Whether file uris can be accessed. Possible values: true/false, 
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-file-access-from-file-uris
Whether file uris can be accessed. Possible values: true/false, 
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-html5-database
Whether to enable HTML5 client-side SQL database support.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-html5-local-storage
Whether to enable HTML5 localStorage support.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-java-applet
Whether to enable Java <applet>-tag.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-offline-web-application-cache
Enable or disable HTML5 offline web application cache support.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-page-cache
Enable or disable page cache.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-plugins
Enable or disable embedded plugins.
Possible values: true/false, 
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-private-browsing
Enable or disable private browsing. 
Possible values: true/false, 
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-scripts
Enable or disable embedded scripting-languages.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-site-specific-quirks
Enables the site-specific compatibility workarounds.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-spatial-navigation
Whether to enable the Spatial Navigation. This feature consists in the ability
to navigate between focusable elements in a Web page, such as hyperlinks and
form controls, by using Left, Right, Up and Down arrow keys.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-spell-checking
Whether to enable spell checking.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR enable-universal-access-from-file-uris
Whether to allow files loaded through file:// URIs universal access to all pages.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enable-xss-auditor
Whether to enable the XSS Auditor. This feature filters some kinds of reflective
XSS attacks on vulnerable web sites.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR enforce-96-dpi
Enforce a resolution of 96 DPI.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR fantasy-font-family
Default fantasy font family used to display text. Possible values: a font description or 
NULL,
default value:
.IR serif .
.TP
.BR javascript-can-access-clipboard
Whether javascript can access Clipboard.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR full-content-zoom
Whether the full content is scaled when zooming.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR javascript-can-open-windows-automatically
Whether JavaScript can open popup windows automatically without user intervention.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR minimum-font-size
The minimum font size used to display text. Possible values: a font size
(integer),
default value:
.IR 5 .
.TP
.BR minimum-logical-font-size
The minimum logical font size used to display text. Possible values: a font size
(integer),
default value:
.IR 5 .
.TP
.BR monospace-font-family
Default font family used to display monospace text. Possible values: a font description or 
NULL,
default value:
.IR monospace .
.TP
.BR print-backgrounds
Whether background images should be printed. 
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR resizable-text-areas
Whether text areas are resizable.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR sans-serif-font-family
Default sans-serif font family used to display text. Possible values: a font description or 
NULL,
default value:
.IR sans-serif .
.TP
.BR serif-font-family
Default serif font family used to display text. Possible values: a font description or 
NULL,
default value:
.IR serif .
.TP
.BR spell-checking-language
The languages to be used for spell checking, separated by commas. Possible
values: a string or 
NULL,
default value:
.IR NULL .
.TP
.BR tab-cycles-through-elements
Whether the tab key cycles through elements on the page.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR user-agent
The user-agent-string. Possible values: a user-agent or 
NULL,
default value:
.IR NULL .
.TP
.BR user-stylesheet-uri
The URI of a stylesheet that is applied to every page. If a local file is used,
must start with file://. Possible values: an
uri-string or NULL,
default value:
.IR NULL .
.TP
.BR zoom-level
The zoom level of the content. Possible values: a decimal,
default value:
.IR 1.0 .
.TP
.BR zoom-step
The value by which the zoom level is changed when zooming in or out. Possible
values: a decimal,
default value:
.IR 0.1 .

.TP 
.BR active-completion-bg-color
The background color for an active element in tab-completion. Possible values:
an rgb color-string,
default value:
.IR #000000 .
.TP 
.BR active-completion-fg-color
The foreground color for an active element in tab-completion. Possible values:
an rgb color-string.
default value:
.IR #53868b .
.TP 
.BR background-color
The background color of the statusbar. Possible values: an rgb color-string,
default value:
.IR #000000 .
.TP 
.TP 
.BR foreground-color
The foreground color of statusbar. Possible values: an rgb color-string.
default value:
.IR #ffffff .
.TP 
.BR auto-completion
Whether possible keystrokes should be shown. (Shift-) Tab cycles through keystrokes.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP 
.BR auto-insert-mode
Whether to go automatically in insert mode if an editable element has focus
after loading a site. 
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP 
.BR background-tabs
Open new tabs in background. 
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP
.BR cache-model
The cache model used by webkit, possible values are
.B webbrowser 
and 
.BR documentviewer .
Webbrowser increases loading speed but increases memory usage, documentviewer
reduces memory usage but also decreases browsing speed. Default Value:
.IR webbrowser .
.TP 
.BR complete-bookmarks
Whether to complete bookmarks with tab-completion. Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP 
.BR complete-history
Whether to complete browsing history with tab-completion. Possible values:
true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP 
.BR complete-searchengines
Whether to complete searchengines with tab-completion. Possible values:
true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP 
.BR complete-userscripts
Whether to complete userscripts with tab-completion. Possible values:
true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP 
.BR cookies-store-policy
The storage policy for cookies, possible values are 
.IR session , 
.IR persistent , 
and 
.IR never . 
If set to 
.I session
all session cookies are accepted, only cookies with a matching domain in
cookies.allow will be stored persistently.
If set to 
.I persistent 
all cookies are stored persistently. 
If set to 
.I never 
the cookies allowed by cookies_session.allow are allowed for the current
session and cookies allowed by cookies.allow are save persistently, all other
cookies are rejected. 
Default value:
.IR session .
.TP 
.BR cookies-accept-policy
The accept policy for cookies. 
.IR always
will accept all cookies, 
.IR nothirdparty 
will accept all cookies except for third party cookies,
.IR never 
will reject all cookies. This setting also affects session cookies.
default value:
.IR always .
.TP 
.TP 
.BR default-width
The default width of dwb's window. Possible values: width in pixel,
default value:
.IR 800 .
.TP 
.BR default-height
The default height of dwb's window. Possible values: height in pixel,
default value:
.IR 600 .
.TP 
.BR download-fg-color 
The foreground color of the download bar, default value: 
.IR #ffffff .
.TP 
.BR download-bg-color 
The background color of the download bar, default value: 
.IR #000000 .
.TP 
.BR download-gradient-start 
The start color for the download progress gradient color, default value 
.IR #0000aa .
.TP 
.BR download-gradient-stop 
The end color for the download progress gradient color, default value 
.IR #00aa00 .
.TP 
.BR download-external-command
A command that will be invoked if 'download-use-external-program' is set. There
are four variables that can be used in the command: 
.IR dwb_uri
will be replaced with the download-uri, 
.IR dwb_output
will be replaced with the fullpath of the destination, 
.IR dwb_cookies
will be replaced with the path to the cookie-file,
.IR dwb_referer 
will be replaced with the uri of the site the download started. 
Additionally the environment-variables
.IR DWB_URI , 
.IR DWB_FILENAME , 
.IR DWB_COOKIES , 
.IR DWB_REFERER ,
.IR DWB_MIME_TYPE 
and 
.I DWB_USER_AGENT  
are set. 
Default value:
.IR xterm\ -e\ wget\ 'dwb_uri'\ -O\ 'dwb_output'\ --load-cookies\ 'dwb_cookies' .
.TP
.BR download-directory
The default download directory, if empty, the current working directory is used
or the last download path is used.
default value: 
.IR NULL .
.TP
.BR download-no-confirm
Whether to start downloads immediately without asking for a path,
.I download-directory 
needs to be set to an existing path. 
default value: 
.IR false .
.TP
.BR download-use-external-program
Whether to use an external download program specified in
\'download-external-programm\' or the builtin download helper.
Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP 
.BR editor
External editor used for inputs/textareas.
default value:
.IR xterm\ -e\ vim\ dwb_uri .
.TP 
.BR enable-favicon
Whether to show a favicon in the tab. 
default value:
.IR true .
.TP 
.BR error-color
The color for error-messages. Possible values: an rgb color-string,
default value:
.IR #ff0000 .
.TP 
.BR error-color
The color for prompt-messages. Possible values: an rgb color-string,
default value:
.IR #00ff00 .
.TP 
.BR font
The font used for the ui. Possible values: a font description
string,
default value:
.I monospace\ 8.
.TP 
.BR font-completion
The font used for tabcompletion. Possible values: a font description
string,
default value: 
.TP 
.BR font-entry
The font used for the address bar. Possible values: a font description
string,
default value: 
.TP 
.BR font-inactive
The font used for inactive tabs. Possible values: a font description
string,
default value: 
.TP 
.BR ftp-client
Program to open ftp://. 
.IR dwb_uri
will be replaced with the ftp-url. Default value: 
.IR xterm\ -e\ ncftp\ 'dwb_uri' .
.TP 
.BR hint-active-color
The background color for active link, i.e. the link followed when Return is
pressed. Possible values: a rgb color string,
default value:
.IR #00ff00 .
.TP 
.BR hint-bg-color
The background color used for hints. Possible values: a rgb color string,
default value:
.IR #000088 .
.TP 
.BR hint-border
The boreder used for hints. Possible values: a css border description,
default value:
.IR 2px\ dashed\ #000000 .
.TP 
.BR hint-fg-color
The foreground color used for hints. Possible values: a rgb color string,
default value:
.IR #ffffff .
.TP 
.BR hint-font
The font used for hints. Possible values: css font description,
default value:
.IR bold\ 10px\ monospace .
.TP 
.BR hint-highlight-links
Wether to highlight all links in hint-mode,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP 
.BR hint-letter-seq
A letter sequence used for letter hints. Possible values: a letter sequence,
every letter should appear only once.
Default value:
.IR FDSARTGBVECWXQYIOPMNHZULKJ .
.TP 
.BR hint-normal-color
The background color for a normal link. Possible values: a rgb color string,
default value:
.IR #ffff99 .
.TP 
.BR hint-opacity
The opacity of a hint. Possible values: a decimal from 0.0 to 1.0, 
default value:
.IR 0.75 .
.TP 
.BR hint-style
The type of hints, that are used. When set to "number", letters will match the
links text. Possible values: letter/number,
default value:
.IR letter .
.TP 
.BR history-length
The urls that are saved in the browsing history. Specifying a too large value
can make tab-completion slow. Possible values: number of urls,
default value:
.IR 500 .
.TP 
.BR insertmode-bg-color
The background color of the statusbar in insertmode. Possible values: an rgb
color-string,
default value:
.IR #dddddd .
.TP 
.BR insertmode-fg-color
The foreground color of the statusbar in insertmode. Possible values: an rgb
color-string,
default value:
.IR #000000 .
.TP 
.BR javascript-schemes
Whether to allow loading javascript snippets with scheme 'javascript',
default value:
.IR true .
.TP
.BR mail-client
The email program that is used for mailto:-urls. 
.IR dwb_uri
will be replaced with the mail-url. Default value: 
.IR xterm\ -e\ mutt\ 'dwb_uri'.
.TP 
.BR message-delay
The duration messages are shown. Possible values: duration in seconds (integer),
default value:
.IR 2 .
.TP
.BR navigation-history-max
Maximum length of navigation history. 'enable-private-browsing' must be disabled to
save command history at all. 
default value:
.IR 500 .
.TP 
.BR normal-completion-bg-color
The background color of inactive element in tab-completion. Possible values: an
rgb color-string,
default value:
.IR #151515 .
.TP 
.BR normal-completion-fg-color
The foreground color of inactive element in tab-completion. Possible values: an rgb color-string.
color-string,
default value:
.IR #eeeeee .
.TP 
.BR proxy
Whether to use a HTTP-proxy. Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP 
.BR proxy-url
The proxy-url, can also be set via the http_proxy environment variable. Possible
values: an url string,
default value:
.IR NULL .
.TP 
.BR save-session
Save the session when dwb is closed and restore the last saved session when
invoking dwb. Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR false .
.TP 
.BR scroll-step
The step-increment in pixels for scrolling. If set to a value lower or equal 0,
the default step-increment will be used.
default value: 
.IR 0.0 .
.TP 
.BR scrollbars
Wether scrollbars should be enabled. 
default value: 
.IR false .
.TP 
.BR single-instance
Only one instance of dwb per user. This option will be overridden by the
commandlineoption -n. Possible values: true/false,
default value:
.IR true .
.TP 
.BR ssl-strict
Whether to allow only save ssl-certificates.
default value:
.IR true .
.TP 
.BR ssl-ca-cert
Path to ssl-certificate.
.TP 
.BR ssl-trusted-color
Color of the url in the statusbar for ssl-encrypted sites and trusted
certificate.
default value:
.IR #00ff00 .
.TP 
.BR ssl-untrusted-color
Color of the url in the statusbar for ssl-encrypted sites and untrusted
certificate.
default value:
.IR #ff0000 .
.TP 
.BR startpage
The default startpage. Possible values: an url or "about:blank" for an empty
startpage,
default value:
.IR about:blank .
.TP 
.BR tabbar-visible
When the tabbar is hidden specifies the number of seconds the tabbar is visible
when switching between tabs.
.IR 2 .
.TP 
.BR tab-active-bg-color
The background color the tab of the focused tab. Possible values: an rgb
color-string,
default value:
.IR #000000 .
.TP 
.BR tab-active-fg-color
The foreground color of the tab of the focused tab. Possible values: an rgb
color-string,
default value:
.IR #ffffff .
.TP 
.BR tab-normal-bg-color
The background color the tab of a not focused tab. Possible values: an rgb
color-string,
default value:
.IR #505050 .
.TP 
.BR tab-normal-fg-color
The foreground color of the tab of a not focused tab. Possible values: an rgb
color-string,
default value:
.IR #cccccc .
.TP 
.BR tab-normal-fg-color
The foreground color of the tab of a not focused tab. Possible values: an rgb
color-string,
default value:
.IR #cccccc .
.TP 
.BR tab-protected-color
The color of the tabnumber of protected tabs. Possible values: an rgb color-string,
default value:
.IR #ff0000 .
.TP 
.BR tab-number-color
The color of the tabnumber. Possible values: an rgb color-string,
default value:
.IR #ff0000 .
.TP 
.BR tabbed-browsing
Enable tabbed-browsing. If disabled, all new window/new tab requests will be
opened in a new window. 
default value:
.IR true .
.TP 
.BR widget-packing
A string consisting of 4 characters, where possible characters are: 
.BR d , 
.BR w , 
.B T , 
.BR t , 
.B S  
and 
.BR s .
The order of the widgets correspond the the order of characters in the string
where 
.B d
corresponds to the download bar, 
.B t 
and 
.B T
to the tab bar where 
.B T  
means that the tabbar will not be visible, 
.B w
to the webview and
.B s 
and 
.B S
to the statusbar where 
.B S
means that the statusbar won't be visible.
Default value:
.IR dtws .

.SH FILES
.SS Scripts
Javascript userscripts can be stored in 
.IR ~/.config/dwb/scripts . 
The scripts are applied to pages depending on their filename extension, there
are 4 possible extensions: 
.TP
.B .js
Scripts with extension 
.I .js
are injected into the page directly after the load of a
new page is committed. 
.TP
.B .all.js 
Scripts with extension 
.I .all.js
are injected into all frames of a page directly after the load of a
new frame is committed. 
.TP
.B .onload.js 
Scripts with extension 
.I .onload.js
are injected into the page directly when loading of a page is done. 
.TP
.B .onload.all.js 
Scripts with extension 
.I .onload.all.js
are injected into all frames of a page when the load of a
frame is done. 

.SS CSS
dwb creates some html-elements at runtime, namely hints and a bar that show the
current url under the cursor. They can be styled in user-stylesheets using the
selector 
.I .dwb_hint
for hints and 
.I #dwb_hover_element
for the hover element. 

.SS Userscripts
Userscripts can be stored in 
.IR ~/.config/dwb/userscripts .
The first argument of the script will be the current url, the second argument is
the title, the third argument will be the profile name, the fourth argument is
the numerical modifier and the fifth argument is a commandline argument. Also
the variables 
.IR DWB_URI ,
.IR DWB_TITLE ,
.IR DWB_PROFILE ,
.IR DWB_NUMMOD ,
.IR DWB_ARGUMENT ,
.IR DWB_REFERER ,
and
.I DWB_USER_AGENT
are set.
The keybinding for
the script must be defined in the script itself in a commented line of the form
.B <comment symbols> dwb: <keybinding>.
Commands can be executed by sending the command to stdout.

.SS Examples
The following script will download the actual webpage:
.IP
#!/bin/bash
.PD 0
.IP 
# dwb: Control w

wget $1

.P
Popup an alert dialog:
.IP
#!/bin/bash
.PD 0
.IP 
# dwb: Control h

echo "open javascript:window.alert(\\"Hello world\\")"


.SH AUTHOR
portix <portix@gmx.net>
